= Xlsx2json -- Converts Excel to JSON in Ruby and Ruby on Rails.

Xlsx2json is a Ruby gem that facilitates transformation of an Excel(xlsx and xlsm) into json without loading files into database or memory.

== Installation

Xlsx2json can be used from the command line or as part of a Ruby web framework. To install the gem using terminal, run the following command:

    gem install xlsx2json

To use it in Rails, add this line to your Gemfile:

    gem "xlsx2json"


== Basic Usage
Xlsx2json can convert a tabular structure of an Excel worksheet into a json object. . Xlsx2json will do the conversion withoutloading the Excel file into memory or database.

    require 'xlsx2json'
    require 'json'

    json_path = '/Users/developer/information.json'
    excel_path = 'spec/fixtures/fixture_2.xlsx'
    sheet_number = 0 # sheet number start from 0
    header_row_number = 1 # row number of the header row which contains column names. 
                          # Rows before this number get ignored. 
                          # Row numbers start from 1 based on Excel conventions.

    Xlsx2json::Transformer.execute excel_path, sheet_number, json_path, header_row_number: header_row_number

    JSON.parse(File.open(json_path).read) # => [{"sku"=>"P07", "bu"=>"Paper", "sales"=>"200", "year"=>"2008"}, {"sku"=>"P17", "bu"=>"Paper", "sales"=>"200", "year"=>"2014"}, {"sku"=>"P19", "bu"=>"Paper", "sales"=>"200", "year"=>"2008"}]

== Excel Support

* Xlsx2json only supports XLSX and XLSM files.
* Data structure on the Excel worksheet should be tabular.
* By default is assumed that the first row of the Excel worksheet contains column names. If the header starts at a different row, you should pass that by header_row_number option. All rows before this number will get ignored.
* Sheet numbers start from 0.


== Contributing

Contributions are welcomed. You can fork a repository, add your code changes to the forked branch, ensure all existing unit tests pass, create new unit tests cover your new changes and finally create a pull request.

After forking and then cloning the repository locally, install Bundler and then use it
to install the development gem dependencies:

    gem install bundler
    bundle install

Once this is complete, you should be able to run the test suite:

    rake


== Bug Reporting

Please use the {Issues}[https://github.com/pythonicrubyist/xlsx2json/issues] page to report bugs or suggest new enhancements.


== License

Xlsx2json has been published under {MIT License}[https://github.com/pythonicrubyist/xlsx2json/blob/master/LICENSE.txt]
